That's my pre-workout.
It's called stem-free stimulant. It's
not very stimulating. I can't find
myself funny. Do you ever do that? Crack
a joke that no one thinks is funny, but
you just can't help it.
I've heard the key to good humor is just
repetition. So, I'm just going to keep
on telling that same joke
until one of you laughs.
I always laugh at you. Thanks, bro.
Thanks, bro, for laughing at me.
All right, 160 up next. It's feeling
okay.
You know, how many times I modify my own
technique? Like,
it's really strange and the
modifications are so small. Today, the
modification is I'm going slightly lower
on my sternum
based on
looking at an old video where I bench
pressed 250 kg. Looking at the point on
my sternum where I touch, and it's like,
"Oh, that was quite low."
A fair bit lower than I have been. So,
I've been hitting kind of here, just
underneath my pecs.
And where I touched on the 250 was a
little bit lower than that.
So, I thought, "I'm going to give that a
go." Um so, I have been. It's like, "Oh,
that does feel different." I've just
like, the way that my body has evolved
is just the bar position has just been
over the last year or so has just gone
slightly higher.
Uh anyhow, I looked at that video, saw
it was lower. That was the strongest
I've been.
Thought I'd replicate that, and it's
feeling okay. It feels different, for
sure. Even though I'm probably bringing
it maybe 1 cm lower on my sternum.
But, it's coming up more effortlessly.
Today's goal is 180 kg. Um
if I get three reps, that equals 200. I
haven't done 200 kg in a while. If I get
three reps, that equals 200 for one.
I currently weigh about 99 98 to 99 kg.
So, I'm under 100. So, for me, my
standard is I always love being double
body weight bench presser, especially at
a 100 kg body weight. That's cool.
You know what I mean?
Uh so, 200 kilos bench press, while I
haven't really been kind of focused on
building, is a really nice place to be.
So, if I get three reps on 180, that
tells me that I'm good for a 200 without
actually doing the 200. Um if I get
more, ooh, that means I'm more than 200.
We'll see.
Come on.
Up.
Easy.
Ah.
Yes.
You know what that means?
Maybe.
Nice.
So, you know what that means? 180 for
three equals 200 for one. So, I got 180
for four. That means,
you know, it doesn't mean I'm way more
than 200 for one. Means I'm comfortably
at 200 for one. Of course, maybe a
little bit more. Uh the most I've done
recently was 210. When I say recently,
I'd say that's months ago when I was
actually pushing my bench press.
Um but I feel like I've not really been
the work that I've done is kind of
maintenance mode.
Uh but damn, maintenance, all right.
Usually
maintenance is probably the incorrect
word. It's the word that we use to kind
of hold on to as much strength, but you
can't really maintain a peak.
Right? So, you'd say you'd think
maintaining a 210 kg That means I'm
staying at 210. No, you can't maintain a
peak. But, anyway,
um I've been training in maintenance
mode, which is moderate volume. I've
been training bench press once per week
and then accessories the second session.
So, I still train the pushing muscles. A
balanced approach to accessory work is
the way that I've always trained my
upper body. If you guys have been
following my journey, you'll know that
I'm quite strong at overhead pressing.
But, never assume knowledge because, you
know, people are watching me for the
first time and they don't know. Uh but,
I'm going to assume knowledge because
the amount of times you guys have asked
me for an overhead tutorial, I'm going
to assume that a whole bunch of you want
to learn about overhead because you
probably know I'm good at it. My best
overhead press official was a 160 kg log
press after 6 weeks of training the log.
And it was at the time an Australian
record in the 105 class
>> [sighs]
>> with terrible technique. I
I uh
didn't use my legs. It was like a strict
press. And the reason why I'm able to do
that is because I have a balanced
approach to my training, which means
I like to categorize my upper body
training in four categories and lower
body training in four categories. So,
for my upper body, it's pretty simple.
And And this is not something that I've
made up. It's probably something that
most of you do. Upper body push pull, so
horizontal push pull and vertical push
pull are the four categories that I like
to apply equal emphasis across my
long-term training program.
So, that means
if you see me do bench press, and this
is what I'm going to be doing today, is
I'll do some more bench press work and
back down work, but then I'm going to be
doing complementary vertical push
pattern. So, a lot of the times I'll do
a standard program might be flat bench
with the secondary pressing will be a
seated dumbbell shoulder press. So, I'm
hitting the horizontal push and the
vertical push. And then on the secondary
day, I might start with a vertical
press, so a a standing barbell press,
and then I'll do a flat dumbbell press
as the accessories.
So, that's a great way of, you know,
balancing out the strength development
on the horizontal push plane and the
vertical push plane. And then, of
course, I like to balance that out with
kind of an equal emphasis on horizontal
pull and vertical pull. Now, where does
this fall apart? A very simple overly
simplified way of describing this is
saying using a push-pull ratio of 1:1,
which is something that I could say that
I do. When people say like, "What do you
mean push-pull ratio of 1:1? I just did
four reps on 180 kg. Does that mean I
need to do a a four reps of a a
bent-over row of 180 kg or the
equivalent?" It's like, "Well, not
really because
I don't do four reps on any pull
pattern. It just doesn't suit the muscle
group. It doesn't suit the movement
pattern.
And four reps,
I do threes and twos and ones on my
pressing. I absolutely don't do one to
five rep range at all for any of my pull
pattern exercises. Pull-ups, pull-downs,
rows. I typically don't do less than six
reps or less than eight reps. How could
it be balanced? Well, this is where
people like to take you a little bit too
literally and say, "No, but you said
push-pull ratio of 1:1." It's like,
"Okay, cool." What I like to say is I I
place an equal emphasis. So, I'm going
to be pairing this with an equal amount
of rows to give myself an equal amount
of stimulus on the muscles of my back.
And that's not going to be a set of
four. It's probably going to be I'll be
doing one-arm rows and I like my one-arm
rows for sets of eight. You know, so is
that balanced? No, it doesn't really
matter. But yeah, it is balanced enough
for me. But either way, this is what I'm
going to be doing. I'm going to do a
back-down set right now for my press. Uh
I'll do two more back-down sets and I'm
going to introduce a Spoto press.
Spoto press, the way that I do it, is
with a pause.
It's an exercise variation named after
former world record holding bench
presser Eric Spoto. I believe his bench
press was raw 320
6 kg, something like that. It's an odd
number cuz I speak in pounds, right? The
way that he used to do his bench press
was uh with his training, he'd never
touch his chest.
You know, some people criticized and
said that's cheating
because you don't got to touch your
chest. Yeah, you do. Uh but there's
nothing cheating about that guy. Like,
he got the world record. He touched his
chest, paused, competition standards,
and locked it out. Like, that's a world
record. So, the way that you train to
achieve that world record, it's not like
whatever you do, call it a cheat, call
it whatever you want to call it, it damn
well worked. So, they named that
technique Spoto Press, which is
if you were to literally name it after
what he did, it's just like benching
without touching your chest. But the way
that I prescribe it is when I say a
Spoto Press, I will actually include a
pause.
And the reason why I love that exercise
so much is you're pausing kind of like
just before you're touching your chest,
you know, a centimeter or so above your
chest. Don't touch your chest, which
means you're having to perform a very
big isometric contraction at the hardest
part of the movement. So, the top part
is the easiest part. Uh the bottom part
is the hardest part. That's where the
pecs are at the most stretch, and that's
where most technical breakdowns occur.
That's where a lot of errors occur. So,
one of my favorite ways of teaching
someone how to stay tight in a bench
press is a paused Spoto Press. So, what
you're doing, if you notice the way that
I press, I'm kind of resting the bar on
my chest. Rest it, drive it. Rest it,
drive it. So, I'm not really developing
that point. I'm kind of that's a that's
a cheat code, you could say, whatever it
is. I've called Also, I don't consider
it a cheat because I'm able to replicate
the same loads and more in competition,
right? It's just what helps me get my
training done.
So, either way, I'm able to do that
because I'm good at maintaining tension.
I'm good at maintaining technique. And
if you're not good at maintaining
technique, the paused Spoto Press forces
you to spend more time holding that
barbell over your chest means you're
using your muscles to hold it there.
You're not resting it on your chest.
When people are loose, it's because
they're switching muscles off. How do we
switch those muscles back on?
By
pausing and not resting at that point.
So, that's my favorite tool that I use.
If you have a weakness of your chest,
try the spot the paused spotto press.
I'm going to give you a demo of it in a
moment. I'm going to give myself a
little bit of a rest. So, I'm giving
myself 8 to 10 minutes rest after that
top set.
It's been 8 minutes now. Damn it, it
means I'm ready to rock, okay? Well,
let's let's get set up. I'm going to do
the first set. I like to do about five
reps. Um 140 kilos should be a little
bit too light. So, this will be a feel
set, and then I might go up to the
appropriate weight, which I'll be able
to tell you after I feel what 140 feels
like.
Yeah.
Easy.
All right. We're going to go six reps.
Yeah, bro.
>> [sighs]
>> Ah, good one. That's nice.
150 kg for six
spotto press. I would say
spotto press is probably the way that I
do it with a pause is more than 10%
weaker than your normal technique. So,
that's quite hard for me, but
I quite like it as especially as a back
down set, because, you know, if you do a
very big heavy set, it's quite
fatiguing. So, what I like to do is the
heavier the weight, the longer that it
takes to recover from.
So, if you want to accumulate more
quality volume,
doing it on exercises that aren't as
easy to load, so that you have to reduce
the load by adding in those extra
complexities, which means you get more
stimulus
without as much fatigue.
Okay, so if that was just like if I just
went all out for two more sets of six,
I'd probably be able to do,
you know, with 180 for four, I should be
able to get 170 for six.
So, for me to do sets of six, the
appropriate weight would be 165 to 170.
So, therefore,
adding the spoto pause makes me reduce
the load. The reduction in load makes it
easier to recover from.
But, it's still, in my opinion, equally
as stimulating, especially
the range of motion that it is
stimulating, which is that part off the
chest. You cannot be too strong at that
part of the chest. That's pretty much
most people's weak points.
>> [sighs]
>> Now, I'm going to go a little bit
further to this. Some people's weak
points are the lock out.
And what's the logical thought process
with if you have a weak lock out, you
must have, fill in the blanks, weak
triceps. I disagree.
With this technique, my opinion is if
you're doing the correct power lifting
technique, I'm trying to think about
bringing my shoulders back and down and
maintaining that position. And a lot of
the times to get the bar off the chest,
you'll go
and you'll you'll protract and take your
shoulders out of position. And that'll
get the bar moving. So, you go, "Okay,
good."
>> [clears throat]
>> And then all of a sudden you'll fail the
lock out.
And then you'll say, "Why did I fail the
lock out?" It's because I have weak
triceps.
Not so fast.
You, in my opinion, lacked the ability
to maintain position off the chest, and
if you did, you would have been in a
better position to lock it out. So, I
don't jump to the
standard conclusion of weak lock out
equals weak triceps. I say weak point
anywhere is a lack of understanding on
how to maintain the position from start
to finish. And if you know how to have a
strong uh position off the chest, so
what that's the hardest part of the
movement, that's the weakest contractile
position of the pecs because it's the
greatest stretch.
So, if that's strong and you're able to
maintain position, that's the hard part,
and you will be rewarded with a strong
lockout.
So, that's why I love the spoto press,
but that's an introduction, that's week
one for me. I like to start my
uh any phase one uh week one of any
phase with a conservative load to allow
room for me to be able to progress. So,
next week, I know I'll be able to do two
sets of five on 155. The week after,
two sets of five on 160. And then the
final week, two sets of Sorry, on five,
sixes on 165. So, for me, could I do six
on 165 today um with a pause? Probably
not. But, if I gave myself four good
weeks, this is week one, and three more
good weeks of of practice at this,
yeah, I'd say that it's possible. So,
that's my rationale with my loading
parameters is start conservative and
allow room to be able to progress. So,
if you look at the four-weekly
progression, you look at week one and
say, "That's quite easy."
But, if on week one you looked at week
four, you should look at it and say,
"That looks a little bit hard for me to
do today. I don't think I'd be able to."
However, you're going to give yourself
three great weeks of practice to be able
to do that on week four.
Next up, accessories. So, starting with
the horizontal push with the barbell, my
accessories are going to be a vertical
push
with dumbbells. So, the rules of uh
exercise selection is first exercise is
achieving the main objective of the day,
which is bench press strength or chest
or whatever it you might be choosing a
flat bench press for. Secondary exercise
should target what you neglected in the
main movement. So, what did I neglect
here? Depends on how you look at it. As
a bodybuilder, you could say, "I'm
targeting pecs." So, what part portion
of the pecs did I neglect? Well, there's
a couple. One, upper pecs. So, of
course, a flat bench press targets
pretty much majority of the pecs. But,
if you want, you know, one of the most
desirable uh components of the pecs to
develop is the upper pec. If you have
big upper pec, it looks like you got big
pecs, full stop. And it's probably one
of the hardest portions of the pecs to
actually develop. So, from a bodybuilder
standpoint, you could say, "What's
neglected here?" Two parts, the upper
pecs, as well as strengthening the
deeper range. With an arch and a wide
grip, it's a shorter range of motion.
Using a dumbbell is going to allow me to
use a longer range of motion. So, um
incline dumbbell press could be a
logical secondary exercise if the goal
was pecs development. But, my goal is to
develop pushing strength. So, I'd look
at that and say, "What did I neglect?" I
neglected the vertical push pattern. So,
I've done horizontal with a bar, let's
do vertical with dumbbells. And then on
the next day, so I like to do upper body
2 days a week, the next day, I flip
that. So, I'll do standing military
press with a bar well as the main heavy
lifting for the day. And then I say,
"What did I neglect here?"
Horizontal push pattern with a full
range of motion, let's use dumbbells.
And that's a very perfectly balanced
strength distribution on all of your
pushing planes.
So,
let's do some seated dumbbell shoulder
press now.
>> [snorts]
>> Good.
Good. That looked lovely, don't you
think? I just looked at the technique
and uh it's very deceiving the way that
I press. A lot of people say, like with
that 180 for four, um Mosey said, "You
had one rep in reserve." I promise you
it didn't feel that way.
Uh and that's because I just understand
with me, it's kind of like sweet spot or
nothing at all. It looks like it's up,
it looks like the last rep that I have,
a lot of the times my last rep, that was
my last rep. If I attempted another one,
it looks like it goes fast, fast, fast,
then nothing.
Um so, yeah, when I did that uh six reps
on the 150. Looking back at the video,
it's like, "Damn, you could have done 10
of that." Um I disagree.
But at the same time, I don't know.
I typically don't push myself. When the
objective is strength, you very rarely
see strength athletes go to fail on
their movements.
Okay, so it's different rule applies. A
lot of us are listening to our favorite
bodybuilders giving out hypertrophy
wisdom saying you have to train to fail
all the time. This is how you maximize
hypertrophy.
>> [sighs]
>> What if your goal is strength?
Different rule applies. Go and have a
look at the best strength athletes in
the world,
and have a look at how often they train
to failure.
Thor hasn't trained to failure one
single rep in the lead-up to his 515 kg
uh deadlift attempt on the 24th of May,
which is where I'm going next week.
And
uh he's the strongest in the world.
So,
you know, it's like, "Well, it doesn't
work. You have to You have to always
train to fail." It's like, "Well, why
are the strongest in the world not doing
it?" Because that's not the correct
strategy for strength training. Training
to failure for strength movements like
especially big compound movements like a
squat, deadlift, bench press are highly
fatiguing, and they come at a cost. So,
strength is a skill, and to practice
that skill, you want to practice it with
good technique. And when you start, you
know, grinding out reps, it's typically
not the best technique. So,
the strategy for hypertrophy may be
taking movements to fail intelligently,
of course.
With strength,
definitely not as much. Now,
I'm going to add a little bit more
context to this cuz a lot of people just
say, "Here's the rules. It's black and
white. Hypertrophy, train to fail.
Strength, don't train to fail. Always
leave a reps in reserve because strength
is a skill." However, there is a skill
component in understanding what it feels
like to grind out a max load, especially
if you're a competitive lifter, because
you may just find yourself in
competition grinding out on a max load,
and understanding what that feels like
and how to actually push through that.
So, a discussion that I had actually
with Carl Bruce when he was attempting
his 300 kg deadlift.
>> We're going to get this.
It's understanding as well, like because
you haven't lifted this weight. No.
You're going to get to the point where
it's [__] hard and that's supposed to
be that way. It's going to slow down. It
doesn't mean it's over.
It's going to slow down. You keep going.
>> you're right. Right?
So, a lot of the times when I'm
screaming at him, it's like, "Don't you
[__]
You keep going." Warning him because he
doesn't do max out deadlifts. Everything
he does is fast, high-speed lifts with
his clean and jerk and snatch. And I
warned him on the 300 kg, it's going to
slow down. That doesn't mean it's over.
This is a discussion that I frequently
have when I'm teaching someone to max
out for the first time. It's going to
feel heavy. That's correct. It's going
to move slowly. That's correct. It's
uncharted territories. That doesn't mean
stop. It means keep on going. So,
therefore, for high-level strength
athletes, it's not as black and white as
saying for strength outcomes for
compound movements, never train to
failure.
I would say
that's speaking in absolutes once again.
Training to failure occasionally is
important part of teaching us what it
feels like to grind out because that's a
skill also.
But, you just got to understand the cost
of fatigue that comes with. So,
therefore, don't do that frequently. If
your objective is strength with big
complex movements like squats and
deadlifts, don't max out frequently, but
sometimes you should. How would you do
that? Well,
my programming strategy that I discuss a
lot, which is where we periodize effort.
So,
you know, a logical way of doing this
is, you know, a lot of times when I work
with someone, it depends on their goal,
but I'll give them a 16-week plan and
I'll teach them even if they're not
peaking in six If they're not competing
in 16 weeks, I'll set them up. So, we go
phase one is learning how to move, where
we don't go to fail, you it's just the
start of the long-term plan.
Phase two, we do a a volume phase, a
hypertrophy phase, where it's high rep
range.
Wait, we're still not maxing out. Phase
three, we do a strength phase. So, each
of these phases I like to do 4 weeks. We
do a strength phase, where my favorite
strength rep ranges are actually three
to six rep range, so not ones. And then
phase four, so this is, you know, 4
weeks per phase, so 4 weeks is learn to
move. 5 to 8 weeks is build muscle. 9 to
12 weeks is build strength in the three
to six rep range. And then 13 to 16
weeks. On week 16, we attempt a max,
where we're looking at working towards a
10 RPE max single. And that's where I
say the objective is to get the lift on
week 16, but if you fail, you know,
that's kind of like the way to test, the
way to teach our body how to do it
safely. Anyway, we're going to do some
seated dumbbell shoulder press. Now,
here's a tip for you guys. Whenever
you're doing a program, so I just went
from bench press, where I benched 180,
and then I did back down work on 150
spotto. So, I'm warm, right? Yeah,
correct. So, a lot of people would
approach their secondary exercises, like
a seated dumbbell shoulder press, and
say, "I don't need to warm up. Today I'm
going to do the 50s."
So, they'd say, "50s way lighter way
lighter than my bench press that I just
did, so I'll just go straight to it."
And then they'll do the first set, and
it feels terrible.
And they say, "Oh, I overestimated the
loads." No, you didn't. You just need to
have a feel set. So, this is me
familiarizing myself
with the different movement pattern
on a lighter of
And then I'll give myself another 5 or
so minutes and then we go for our
working weight, which is going to be 50
kg for the day. Don't you get fatigued?
Actually, on the contrary, it's
stimulating. So, a lot of people
don't do their warm-ups because they say
too much work is is fatiguing. So, I
want to save all of the energy for the
good stuff
and then they come in for the good stuff
and they are under stimulated. They
body's not familiar with the movement
pattern and therefore
they don't perform as well. So, when you
do a feel set, notice how many reps I
just did. It was like
six reps on
a very submaximal load. That does not
fatigue me.
In fact, it stimulates me and it can
make me stronger and allow me to perform
a high quality
working set.
Do you like my rear delts?
And you know what I say? Uh the reason
why I say that is because I do all of
the
opposing muscles. I'm doing all this
pushing
and then all of a sudden people go,
"Man, your rear delts are jacked." It's
like
I don't know why but then my
my rear delts just always get jacked
whatever I do. They get jacked when I
deadlift, they get jacked when I squat
and they get jacked when I press. But,
I'll be doing rows and stuff after that
and I'll be actually training my rear
deltoids.
Wish I had that problem with every
muscle.
But,
you know, we want what we don't have,
right? A lot of people want rear delts
and a lot of people have under developed
rear delts and I'm going to be honest
with you.
Um I would say it's largely largely
genetic.
Just like calves. I had a discussion
with someone the other day and I was
looking at his calves. I'm like, "Dude,
that's some serious calves. What do you
do?" And his answer was, "Nothing. I
chose my parents wisely."
You know, because that's it and it's
like, yeah. Yeah, calves. You either got
them or you don't.
And
some of the people with the best calves
in the world don't actually train them
and some of the the with the most
terrible calves in the world train them
a lot because they don't like having
terrible calves, but they just do.
Uh and they're just hard gainers in that
area, yeah. That's me with my rear
deltoids.
Born with them.
>> [snorts]
[sighs]
[gasps]
[snorts]
[sighs and panting]
>> Two sets of ice.
And what I'm going to do now is I like
to program with supersets.
So, I had a discussion recently talking
about how long I like to rest between
sets. If you guys have noticed,
on these days, it's about 8 minutes
between these big sets.
Um as I get even stronger towards
competition,
I'll give myself up to 10 minutes.
>> [gasps]
>> And a lot of people say things like,
"Don't have time.
How can you share with other people in
the gym?"
A lot of complaints. As you can see, I
am
uh in a great position where I'm not
sharing with anyone. It's my gym. And
I've made it this way for a reason.
So, yes, of course, um easy for me to
say because I don't have to fight anyone
for the equipment, but
there's few solutions to this. One of
them, a programming strategy where you
superset the opposing muscle groups,
the non-overlapping muscle groups. So,
instead of waiting 8 minutes,
I might wait
>> [panting and sighs]
>> 4 minutes and do a set of rows, and then
wait another 4 minutes and then come
back to my press again.
>> [sighs]
[sighs]
[panting]
>> That was one.
Huh? That was one one solution.
Ah, that was one solution. Another
solution is to freaking work in with
people.
You know, it's like, "Oh, yeah, imagine
This is the comments that people are
saying."
How good is that, Musashi? That was one
solution. Thanks, we're waiting, bro.
Hey, Bozo. [__] hell.
Uh yeah, so the other solution is
working with people, you know?
If I had, you know, dumbbells, whenever
I prescribe dumbbells for people, I
remember how I used to be when I did
train in commercial gyms and had to
share with lots of people. A lot of
people in the gym are extremely
accommodating. So, if you got things
like dumbbells,
"Do you mind if I work in?"
You know, have you ever tried saying
that to someone? "Do you mind if I work
in?" And they typically do not mind.
Because they quite often appreciate a
little bit of rest in between sets. You
know, or imagine a machine, a lat pull
down, or anything, the pin loaded
machines. It is so easy. You do a set,
"Do you mind if I walk in?" And get your
towel.
Towel. Get your towel and put it down on
the machine,
change the pin,
do your set, put the pin back on what
they had, and then say thank you very
much, and they say no problem, anytime.
What a solution. Can you imagine working
in with people?
Communicating with people. What an odd
concept, hey? Revolutionary. It is,
right?
>> [sighs]
>> It's truly revolutionary.
Can't do that in a commercial gym, can
you? I mean, people do. And I typically
don't, but whatever.
>> [sighs and gasps]
[gasps]
[sighs]
>> Are you a shredded dude? Thanks, bro.
So,
something else that I'd like to do. So,
when I'm row, that's a unilateral
movement. That's fatiguing. Central
fatigue that just occurred when I did my
right side of my body. So, what I like
to do these days, whenever I'm doing a
unilateral exercise, I will give myself
a minute or so recovery between arms or
between limbs. So, if you're doing a
lunge, same thing applies.
Don't just go right arm, left arm.
Right leg, left leg. That's fatiguing.
That's where you're going to see a
decline in performance.
So, if I just went straight into my left
arm, I know my left arm wasn't working,
but there is central fatigue. So,
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> I'll give myself 1 or 2 minutes,
and then I'll do
the other limb.
Now, when does that rule not apply? If
you're doing small exercises, like your
rehab stuff, rotator cuff work. If I do
a set of 10 on the external rotation, I
don't need to really wait. There's not
much central fatigue happening. I don't
really need to wait to allow for
recovery for
my other limb.
So, context matters here. If it's a more
complex movement, more demanding
movement that requires a little bit of
recovery, give yourself an extra minute
or two before you do the other limb. Do
you split your wrists?
Exactly. So, if it's a 4-minute rest,
I'll go
Cool. 4 minutes rest means So, I go
press,
wait 4 minutes,
push, wait for wait 2 minutes, pull,
wait 2 minutes, and then back to the
press again.
So, all up, instead of sitting down and
resting 8 minutes from
between my pushing sets,
>> [sighs]
>> I'm doing the opposing muscle groups
in the background. Now,
here's the key to remember. That's
called non-overlapping muscles. The
muscles that I'm using here are the
opposite muscles. They're not being used
when I'm doing my press. So, that's a
strength strategy. Super setting with
same muscles is a hypertrophy strategy
and you wouldn't do that kind of like
waiting 4 minutes, you know, total. So,
same muscle superset is a hypertrophy
strategy where you could do something
like close to do that with that shoulder
press. I'd go shoulder press, I'm doing
eight reps, and then straight away, so
no rest, pick up, you know, a lighter
dumbbell and do like a dumbbell lateral
raise. Great pairing. So, you same
muscle superset. Uh pros and cons of
this. Pros is like sick pump, a lot of
additional volume within the same
session. The cons of this is it
accumulates fatigue. And then my next
set of press to dumbbell lateral raises
is going to be negatively affected. So,
I'm not going to have the same quality
output. I'm going to have to go use a
lighter weight or use less reps. So,
therefore, my bias is quality over
quantity.
However, you guys love hearing me say
however. However,
sometimes these are the benefits of a
superset is time-saving.
So, in this context, of course. So, the
context of comparing a same muscle
superset for hypertrophy or opposing
non-overlapping muscle supersets for
strength,
the only thing the only benefit is
time-saving. You don't get any
additional hormonal effect or metabolic
stress benefits and therefore more
muscle mass. There is none of that.
Purely saves time and that's why you
would do it. So, if I came in for a
half-hour session and I had to get out
of here, had an appointment or whatever,
great strategy. Do a set of dumbbell
shoulder press, pump out some dumbbell
lateral raises, or do a drop set or
something like that where it allows you
to accumulate a little bit more volume
in a much shorter time period. So, when
volume is equated,
there is no additional hypertrophy
benefits.
Okay, now, um I remember saying this,
that's the only benefit of supersetting,
saving time. That's all.
Don't at me.
And then someone at it me.
It's like, what about for circuits and
uh conditioning? It's like, huh, touche.
Correct. That's a different style of
superset when you're doing things like
energy systems training. So, you're
doing super supersets where the
objective is not muscle building or
strength building, it is developing your
energy systems. So, it's a great way
that rugby players or combat athletes
like to train. They set themselves up
into circuits. And they'll do things
like Here's a good circuit for you. Try
this out. It's a way of still achieving
structural balance where I choose
typically
five exercises and I put them in the
same circuit and do them back to back.
And I would do this.
Squat,
push,
deadlift, pull, core. So, choose your
favorite squat pattern. Could be a back
squat, could be a front squat, could be
a goblet squat, could be a hack squat.
Then choose your favorite press pattern.
It could be an overhead press, a bench
press, a dumbbell press,
push-up.
Then choose your favorite deadlift
pattern. It could be conventional, an
RDL,
a sumo deadlift. Then choose your
favorite pull pattern. It could be a
pull-up, a pull-down, a row. And then
choose your favorite core or
conditioning exercise. So, you could do
plank or, you know, whatever your
favorite ab exercise is or a
conditioning workout. And something else
I love to do, especially for my
fighters, is sled pushes or, you know,
battle ropes or sprint on the rowing
machine, something like that. So, that's
a great circuit if you want to try
something for conditioning, which I'm
very far removed from that. I don't need
to do anything like that. But I've
trained some professional UFC fighters
and professional boxers in Australia
with that strategy very successfully and
eliminated any cardio work or any
additional cardio work. Of course, a
fighter
practicing their sport, hitting pads or
sparring, is doing tons of cardio.
Did I even do my left arm? No, I didn't.
Let's do it.
All right.
>> [sighs]
>> Good. One more set.
Full stretch
where I'm focusing on allowing the
shoulder blade to protract and reach
forward to full retraction and
depression of the scapula.
>> [sighs]
>> Every single rep, that's the focus.
Full stretch.
You know, it's not just the elbow
stretch. Like I could have a bent elbow,
but still allow my shoulder to come
forward
because I don't really care for the
biceps development. It's secondary for
biceps. But either way, I'm hanging.
Full stretch, shoulders back and down.
Full stretch.
Not just stretch, I'm protracting.
Stretch and reach, and then shoulders
back and down towards the opposing
pocket. So, my right shoulder blade
towards my left pocket.
Left back pocket.
>> [sighs and panting]
>> One more set. Let's do it.
Uh
Then after that, I've still
I'm going to do some vertical pull
plane. So, I'll do some lat pull downs
to finish the day. I have a call
at [sighs and gasps]
2:15.
It's 2:00.
I've got to do this set
and then I'm going to do some uh
>> [panting]
[sighs]
>> eating.
I'm going to eat my lunch. Last set of
the day, lat pull downs.
Um well, when I do cut my training
short, it's usually because I've sat
there speaking to you for so long in
between sets. But it's for the gram or
the YouTube, so someone benefits, just
not me so much. But I'm not losing out
on that much.
So, when this is the case, I'll just do
one set and take it to failure.
Um lat pull down. So, check this, right?
So, what implement am I using currently?
It's a closer grip, supinated, which I
quite like. Supinated. A lot of the
times I've got these different handles.
So, I've got mid grip, pronated,
mid-grip, neutral, and I've got
wide-grip, pronated, and I've got a
bunch of others. And what I like to do
phase after phase or month after month
is just change that handle. So, for this
entire month, I'll be doing the
supinated grip.
>> [sighs and gasps]
[panting and sighs]
>> I don't know how that looked, but that
felt like it was kind of like
you know,
was I training to fail?
I would say
mechanical fail.
If I did more repetitions, they would
start looking ugly.
So, some of the things that I look out
for with my clients is when they start
struggling, the scaps failed to do their
final component, which is backing down,
which is
how I like to complete my rowing
repetitions.
So, when I feel like that's not able to
happen, that's mechanical fail.
That set's done.
Anyway, that's my session. Should have
done two sets. I only did one. If I did
two sets, I probably would have done 12
on that and then gone for 12 or even an
AMRAP,
which stands for as many reps as
possible.
On the last set, so there's a very big
difference with
AMRAP or taking a movement to fail on a
lat pulldown
>> [panting]
>> and a bodybuilder style exercise, a
hypertrophy style exercise, compared to
things like a bench press, a squat,
deadlift. I wouldn't just go
ah, sick squat day, let's just AMRAP the
last set and take it to fail.
Ah, for the same rules that I discussed
with skill development and technical
complexity of the movement. What's going
to happen if I do extra reps?
If I'm going for a set of 12 and I want
to do extra reps on that pull down,
what's the worst that could happen? If
there's technical breakdown, am I going
to tear a lat? No, not at that rep The
weight's not heavy enough for that to
happen.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> But with a bench press, if you're doing
like what I did, 180, keep on going to
fail, can you tear a pec?
Yeah, you can.
Yeah, you can. So, there's a very big
difference when it comes to context of
should you train to fail or not.
Depends on the exercise. Anyway, hope
you enjoyed that. Like, subscribe, and
I'll see you next time.